\input texinfo
@settitle APL-Library Version 0-1-3

@setfilename apl-library.info
@copying
This manual documents the APL-Library, a collection of useful
functions for the APL programmer.

Copyrigtht @copyright{} 2018-2019 Bill Daly

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
Free Documentation License".
    
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title APL Library
@author Bill Daly

@page
@vskip 1pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

Published by Daly Web and Edit, Inc.
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top APL Library

A collection of usefull functions for the APL programmer.
@end ifnottex

@menu
*  apl_kbd:: Turn the apl keyboard on and off
*  arg_parser:: Functions to parse a script's command line.
*  assert::   Workspace to test source code
*  cfg:: Workspace to read a Windows' configuration file
*  date::     Workspace to store dates by number of days
*  dom::      A partial implementation of w3.com's Document Object Model
*  export::   Create delimited files from workspace arrays.
*  finance::  Present value functions
*  fmt::      Partial implementation of STSC's ⎕fmt
*  html::     Workspace to create html pages
*  import::   Functions to read delimited files
*  lex::      Workspace for storing lexicons of name--value pairs
*  lex1::     Workspace for storing name--value pairs in a hash
*  cl::       Workspace for storing name--value pairs in a component file
*  lpr::      Functions for printing
*  password:: Generate pseudorandom passwords
*  preferences:: Reading GNU-apl preferences
*  prompt::   Prompt a user for answers
*  seq::      Sequences with prefixes
*  stack::    A Simple Stack
*  stat::     Workspace of statistical functions
*  utf8::     Access to disk files encoded with utf8.
*  utl::      Workspace of general utility functions.
*  web_log::  Workspace to read Apache access files.
*  wp::       Workspace to print workpapers
*  xml::      Workspace to create xml applications
*  apl-pkg-mgr::   Install the library's workspaces into APL Package Manager
*  license::
*  Index::

@end menu
@include apl_kbd.texi
@page
@include arg_parser.texi
@page
@include assert.texi
@page
@include cfg.texi
@page
@include date.texi
@page
@include dom.texi
@page
@include export.texi
@page
@include finance.texi
@page
@include fmt.texi
@page
@include html.texi
@page
@include import.texi
@page
@include lex.texi
@page
@include lex1.texi
@page
@include cl.texi
@page
@include lpr.texi
@page
@include password.texi
@page
@include preferences.texi
@page
@include prompt.texi
@page
@include seq.texi
@page
@include stack.texi
@page
@include stat.texi
@page
@include utf8.texi
@page
@include utl.texi
@page
@include web_log.texi
@page
@include wp.texi
@page
@include xml.texi
@page
@include apl-pkg-mgr.texi
@page
@node license
@chapter The GNU Free Documentation License.
@include fdl-1.3.texi 

@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
