@ifplaintext
\input texinfo
@settitle apl_kbd
@setfilename apl_kbd.txt
@copying
This manual is for workspace assert version  0 1 2.

Copyright @copyright{} 2019 Bill Daly

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@end copying

@titlepage
@title apl_kbd
@author Bill Daly

@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node TOP
@end ifnottex

@end ifplaintext

@ifnotplaintext
@node apl_kbd
@end ifnotplaintext

@chapter apl_kbd
@cindex apl_kbd
@cindex utilities

apk_kbd is a workspace to add an additional shift-key to your keyboard
so that you can type APL functions and operators.  Once activated use
the new shift-key with other keys to generate apl's functions and
operators.  To see which key to use type the command )KEYBOARD for a
keyboard diagram

@deffn ∇ kbd_on shift_key
Turn the new shift key on.  shift_key is one of

@itemize @bullet
@item  kbd_opt_win, the Windows key
@item kbd_opt_rctrl, the right ctrl key
@item kbd_opt_ralt, the right alt key
@item kbd_opt_lalt, the left alt key
@end itemize

@end deffn

@deffn ∇ kbd_off
Return the keyboard to its original state.
@end deffn

When choosing which shift key to use be wary of what other programs
might be using it.  Some window managers will use the Windows key for
its own purposes. 



