@ifplaintext
\input texinfo
@settitle cfg --- Windows style configuration files
@setfilename cfg.txt
@copying
This manual is for workspace assert version  0 1 2.

Copyright @copyright{} 2019 Bill Daly

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@end copying

@titlepage
@title cfg --- Windows style configuration files
@author Bill Daly

@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node TOP
@end ifnottex

@end ifplaintext

@ifnotplaintext
@node cfg
@end ifnotplaintext

@chapter cfg --- Windows style configuration files
@cindex cfg --- Windows style configuration files

cfg parses Windows style configuration files (ini files).  These
are text files, usually with a suffix of ini, used by various programs
to store configuration information.

Ini files are broken down into sections of name--value pairs. This
workspaces stores this information in a lexicon of lexicons (see
workspaces lex, lex1 and cl).  That is each section is separate item
in the first level lexicon and each name--value pair in the section is
a separate item in the second level of the lexicon.

@deffn ∇ lex ← cfg∆parse_file name

Reads an ini file and return a two level lexicon.  An optional left
argument supplies the character used to begin comment lines in the
file.

@end deffn

