@ifplaintext
\input texinfo
@settitle html
@setfilename html.txt
@copying
This manual is for workspace assert version  0 1 2.

Copyright @copyright{} 2019 Bill Daly

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@end copying

@titlepage
@title html
@author Bill Daly

@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node TOP
@end ifnottex

@end ifplaintext

@ifnotplaintext
@node html
@end ifnotplaintext

@chapter html
@cindex html
							
This is a workspace to create html files. html is a text markup scheme
used by the world wide web.  At its most basic level html is a
collection of tags, that is a word enclosed in angle brackets, which
instruct a web browser how to display the text.

The html workspace is an implementation of the xml workspace. html
creates a set of functions that return marked up text for inclusion in
an html document. It creates a function for each html tag that takes
as its optional, left argument a lexicon of attributes (see workspace
lex)and as its right argument the text to be marked up.

A Hello World html document might be coded like this:

@verbatim
      head←html∆head html∆title 'Hello World'
      html∆html head  , html∆body html∆h1 'Hello World'
 
<html><head><title>Hello World</title></head>
<body><h1>Hello World</h1></body></html>
@end verbatim


