@ifplaintext
\input texinfo
@settitle import
@setfilename import.txt
@copying
This manual is for workspace assert version  0 1 2.

Copyright @copyright{} 2019 Bill Daly

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@end copying

@titlepage
@title import
@author Bill Daly

@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node TOP
@end ifnottex

@end ifplaintext

@ifnotplaintext
@node import
@end ifnotplaintext

@chapter import
@cindex import
@cindex delimited files
@cindex csv

Import is an apl workspace to import arrays from text files.

@deffn ∇ array ← import∆file name

Import∆file reads a file from disk and returns an array of rank 2,
that is, rows and columns. It will determine whether the file is tab
or comma delimited and will determine which columns contain numeric
data and covert those strings to numbers.
@end deffn

@deffn ∇ array ← import∆table import_array

Import∆table examines the array returned by import∆file.  It will
remove blank columns, heading rows at the begining of the file and
footer rows at the end.  It will also replace blank cells in numeric
columns with zeros.

@end deffn
